Create Sending bitcoin page (#181)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/payments/send.md

- **Amount** — How much to send
- **Coin selection** — Which coins/inputs to use (optional)
- **Fee settings** — Prioritize fast confirmation or low cost (optional)

---

The order of configuration for the payment can be tailored to your use case. For example, you may make users set the amount before the address is entered.
            
## Get the recipient address
To send a payment on the Bitcoin blockchain we need the recipient's address. Since Bitcoin [addresses](https://bitcoin.design/guide/glossary/#address) are long and seemingly random, they are best shared by copying and pasting in plain text, as a [payment link](https://bitcoin.design/guide/foundations/wallet-interoperability/#payment-links), or as a scannable [QR Code](https://bitcoin.design/guide/foundations/wallet-interoperability/#qr-codes).

This is easily accomplished by generating a new address in the receiving wallet application, then sharing it with the sender. If the sender and receiver are together at the time, scanning the receivers address as a QR code will be easy, but if they are not, they can send the address as text in any regular communication tool like email, sms etc.

## Input an address

> Once you have gotten the address, it needs to be inputted on the "create transaction" interface. Bitcoin transactions are irreversible so both the sender and receiver should take great care in correctly sharing and inputting addresses. 

Reviewer: Also, this part speaks from the perspective of a dev (Once you got the address, whereas below, it speaks from the user's perspective, so probably a good idea to say Once the user has gotten the address.

> Upon address input, the user should be clearly informed if the address is valid or not. If the address is not valid, or incompatible with the current application, sending should be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon address input, the user should be clearly informed if the address is valid or not. If the address is not valid or incompatible with the current application, sending should be disabled.
```

> **QR Code** -- Once the camera detects a valid address in the QR Code, it can be automatically inputted. The user will need to grant access your application to be able to scan QR Codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**QR Code** -- Once the camera detects a valid address in the QR Code, it can be automatically inputted. The user will need to grant access to your application to be able to scan QR Codes.
```

> **Copy Paste** -- When the sender receives the address in text format they would need to paste in the address. Your application can detect a valid address in the clipboard and prompt the user to press a button to paste.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Copy Paste** -- When the sender receives the address in text format, they would need to paste in the address. Your application can detect a valid address in the clipboard and prompt the user to press a button to paste.
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/M9ajQz9.png)

**Do's**

- Indicate clearly if the address is valid or not
- Show the whole address if possible to help the user visually verify it is correct
- If space is a constraint, truncate the address in the middle so that both the beginning and end are visible
- Most platforms allow applications to read the contents of the device's clipboard to enable convenient copy/paste. While some users find this helpful, some may perceive it as a privacy infringement. You may want to consider giving them an option to disable automatic reading of the clipboard.

**Don'ts**

- Don't allow a transaction to be sent if the address is invalid

## Inputing an amount

> Depending on their familiarity with bitcoin, your users may have a preference to which denomination the amount should be specified in. Common options include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on their familiarity with bitcoin, your users may prefer which denomination the amount should be specified in. Common options include:
```

- **bitcoin** — most common *(i.e. 0.00019376 btc)*
- **local currency** — more familiar *(i.e. $10)*
- **sats / satoshis** — more knowledgeable *(i.e. 19376 sats)*

Allowing the amount to be inputed in different denominations should be readily available. Read more about why and changing units contextually in [Units, symbols and amount display](https://deploy-preview-63--sad-borg-390916.netlify.app/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/).

> Since an amount specified in bitcoin or sats often involve many digits, and don't correspond easily to a local currency amount ($10 as 0.00019376 bitcoin for example). Applications can allow the sender select fractions of the total available balance. Most common is *max* or *all*, which also makes it easy for the user to sweep the entire balance to another wallet.

Reviewer: Attempt to simplify + proposition adding
```suggestion
The amount specified in bitcoin or sats often involves many digits and doesn't correspond easily to a local currency amount ($10 as 0.00019376 bitcoin, for example). Applications can allow the sender to select fractions of the total available balance. Most common is *max* or *all*, which also makes it easy for the user to sweep the entire balance to another wallet.	
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/vSYVVLu.png)

**Do's**

- Allow different denominations to be used for the amount
- Show the total balance available to send
- Allow selecting max amount (subtracting the required fee)
- Payment links and QR codes can contain an amount — when they do, the amount should be populated automatically.

**Don'ts**

- Don't allow entering more than the available balance

## Transaction fee

> The application can automatically estimate a fee and set it for the sender. This would normally prioritize the transaction to be included in a block as soon as possible. Since the fee rate may vary if the network is busy, you can give senders more fine grained fee controls so they can choose to optimize for faster confirmation, or lower fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application can automatically estimate a fee and set it for the sender. This would normally prioritize the transaction to be included in a block as soon as possible. Since the fee rate may vary if the network is busy, you can give senders more fine-grained fee controls so they can choose to optimize for faster confirmation or lower fees.
```

**Variations**
- Automatically set fee rate
- Allow user to choose from presets
- Allow user to enter a custom fee rate (advanced)

#### How are transaction fees calculated?

> The total fee is dependent upon the data size of the transaction multiplied by the fee rate, not the amount being sent. The fee rate is expressed as satoshi's per vByte (sat/vB). Be mindful that not all bitcoin users are familiar with terms such as sat/vB, so it may be necessary to also express the value in their local currencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total fee is dependent upon the data size of the transaction multiplied by the fee rate, not the amount being sent. The fee rate is expressed as satoshi’s per vByte (sat/vB). Be mindful that not all bitcoin users are familiar with sat/vB, so it may be necessary to express the value in their local currencies.

```

##### Fee Estimation

> Fee estimations are largely inaccurate — this is because the fee rate is impacted by everyone else who are trying to get their transactions into a block. The rate is constantly changing so it is difficult to make an accurate prediction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fee estimations are largely inaccurate because the fee rate is impacted by everyone else who is trying to get their transactions into a block. The rate is constantly changing, so it is difficult to make an accurate prediction.

```

> The fee recommendation in your application can cause senders to end up over paying in fees, or waiting long periods of time to get their transactions confirmed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application's fee recommendation can cause senders to end up overpaying in fees or waiting long periods to get their transactions confirmed.

```

### Setting the transaction fee manually

![](https://i.imgur.com/LcEGYjG.png)

When allowing users to set their own fee, it is important to clearly communicate the estimated cost and confirmation time, along with some details on how the fee gets calculated ([see below](#How-are-transaction-fees-calculated)).

> Human error with fee selection can lead to [costly mistakes](https://www.coindesk.com/dumb-mistakes-costly-bitcoin-losses). Someone can set a fee rate that's way too high, overpaying in fees or having transactions stuck for long periods of time if the fee is too low. For these reasons you should carefully consider if and how to expose transaction fees to users depending on the use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Human error with fee selection can lead to [costly mistakes](https://www.coindesk.com/dumb-mistakes-costly-bitcoin-losses). Someone can set a fee rate that's way too high, overpaying in fees or having transactions stuck for long periods of time if the fee is too low. For these reasons, you should carefully consider if and how to expose transaction fees to users depending on the use case.
```

**Do's**

- Clearly communicate information related to the fee rate options
- Display the fee rate and estimated transaction confirmation time
- Display bitcoin and local currency denominations for cost reference

> - Include an option to adjust fee rate based on some presets (e.g. high, medium, low priority)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Include an option to adjust the fee rate based on some presets (e.g., high, medium, low priority)
```

- Display a warning if the user enters an amount far beyond the recommended rate
- Consider offering a [replace by fee]() option to speed up stuck transactions

**Don'ts**

- Allow for confusion between total fee and fee rate
- Allow users to overpay in transaction fees

## Reviewing and Approving the Payment

> A valid transaction that is broadcasted to the network cannot be reversed, so it is critical that the sender is given a chance to double check the payment details (amount, recipient address, total fee, etc) before submitting the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valid transaction that is broadcasted to the network cannot be reversed, so the sender must be given a chance to double-check the payment details (amount, recipient address, total fee, etc.) before submitting the transaction.
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/mk3pJHa.png)

**Do's**

- Allow users to review payment details and adjust if necessary, before submitting the transaction
- Show amount and fee in both bitcoin and local currency denominations

> - If the wallet allows users to set a spending limit and the current transaction exceeds it, make sure users go through some security check (biometric, enter PIN, 2FA password, etc). This can also be used if the 100% of the funds are being sent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the wallet allows users to set a spending limit and the current transaction exceeds it, make sure users go through some security checks (biometric, enter a PIN, 2FA password, etc.). This can also be used if 100% of the funds are being sent. 
```

**Don'ts**

- Assume the user has got all the details correct, give them the chance to look over the information before broadcasting the transaction

> ## Transaction processing and confirmation

Reviewer: I've commented in #173 that processing and confirmation is a bit vague, this in a way compensates for it.

> Once the transaction is valid it is now in the *memory pool*, and is available for including in a block by miners. When in the *memory pool*, the sender can see the transaction in their wallet as unconfirmed or pending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the transaction is valid, it is now in the memory pool and is available for including in a block by miners. When in the memory pool, the sender can see the wallet's transaction as unconfirmed or pending.
```

> After broadcasting a transaction, the process of propagation and validation is quite fast so showing these states may be infeasible. You may inform the user that their transaction is pending a confirmation, the estimated time to confirm given the current fee market, and once it has gotten its first confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After broadcasting a transaction, the process of propagation and validation is quite fast, so showing these states may be infeasible. You may inform the user that their transaction is pending confirmation, the estimated time to confirm the current fee market, and once it has gotten its first confirmation.
```

Author: the estimated time to confirm **given** the current fee market
- whats meant here is taking into context the current fee market, how long will the transaction take to confirm. cause this could change from the time the transaction was first sent.

{% include image.html
   image = "https://i.imgur.com/idV0Mt7.png"
   retina = "https://i.imgur.com/idV0Mt7.png"
   alt-text = "Example image"
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

**Do's**

> - Clearly indicate state of the outgoing transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clearly indicate the state of the outgoing transaction
```

- Show the amount of confirmations the transaction has gotten
- Provide information on transaction/block ID for receipt purposes

**Don'ts**

> - Show a  the transaction as confirmed until it has received ***at least*** one confirmation, but preferably six

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Show the transaction as confirmed until it has received ***at least*** one confirmation, but preferably six
```

**Pending/Unconfirmed** -- The transaction is successfully in the nodes' memory pool and is being propagated throughout the network. The fee market can sometimes be volatile, and the "time until the first confirmation" may change from what was estimated when they had initially broadcasted the transaction. While pending, inform the sender of when they can expect the first transaction confirmation.

**1 confirmation** -- The transaction has been selected by miners and included in a block. Since a reorganization can still happen, a transaction with one confirmation can also be considered a pending state by the receiver. This is a good point to notify the sender.

**6 confirmations** -- Commonly regarded as when the final settlement of the payment happens. Merchants, for example, would only be willing to release the product or service at this point.

</div>
**Do's**
- Clearly indicate the state of the outgoing transaction

> - Show the amount of confirmations the transaction has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Show the number of confirmations the transaction has
```
